Biochemistry. 1975 Dec 2;14(24):5280-5.

Monoanion inhibition and 35Cl nuclear magnetic resonance studies of renal
dipeptidase.

Ferren LG, Ward RL, Campbell BJ.

Kinetic analyses of monoanion inhibition and 15Cl nuclear magnetic resonance at
5.88 MHz were employed to study monoanion interactions with the zinc
metalloenzyme, renal dipeptidase. The enzyme-catalyzed hydrolysis of
glycyldehydrophenylalanine exhibited competitive inhibition when the reaction
rate was determined in the presence of the monovalent anions fluoride, chloride, 
bromide, iodide, azide, nitrate, or thiocyanate or upon the addition of the
divalent anion, sulfate. Competitive inhibition was produced by these anions. One
anion was bound per enzyme molecule, and except in the case of fluoride all of
the anions appeared to bind at the same site. Cyanide ion produced a much more
effective inhibition of renal dipeptidase than the other monoanions, and it was
shown that two cyanide ions were bound per enzyme molecule. An investigation of
the effect of pH upon monoanion inhibition suggested that the anion inhibitors
bind to the group with a pK of approximately 7.8. Complete dissociation of this
group (approximately pH 8.4) eliminates the inhibitory effect of anions. The 35Cl
line broadening produced by renal dipeptidase in 0.5 M NaCl solutions was 100
times more effective than that produced by equivalent concentrations of
aquozinc(II). The line broadening was dependent upon the concentration of the
metalloenzyme and independent of the frequency of the exciting radiation. When
zinc ion was removed from the metalloenzyme by dialysis or when chloride was
titrated from the metalloenzyme by cyanide, line broadening was decreased.
Treatment of renal dipeptidase with saturating concentrations of the competitive 
inhibitor, guanosine triphosphate, in the presence of 0.5 M NaCl also produced a 
significant decrease in the 35Cl line width. The 35Cl line broadening produced by
renal dipeptidase was shown to decrease with increasing pH through the range pH
5.8-10.8. This line-width variation with pH appeared to result from the titration
of a site on the metalloprotein with an approximate pK of 7.4. Temperature
studies of 35Cl line broadening by the metalloenzyme in the presence of chloride 
and cyanide inhibitors suggest that the fast exchange process pertains and that
the dominant relaxation mechanism is quadrupolar in nature.


PMID: 48  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

