Biochim Biophys Acta. 1975 Nov 20;410(1):99-114.

Kinetic studies and effects of anions on creatine phosphokinase from skeletal
muscle of rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta).

Chegwidden WR, Watts DC.

A purification procedure for creatine kinase (EC 2.7.3.2) from muscle of the
monke35--170 muequiv H+/mg protein per min at 30 degrees C and a yield of approx.
0.5 g/kg muscle. Assuming equilibrium kinetics, synergistic binding of substrates
at one catalytic site is found for both the forward and back reactions. Kinetic
constants for the binding of each substrate to the free enzyme and the
enzyme-second substrate complex are determined and are compared with those for
the enzyme from other species. Inhibition by small anions is determined in the
presence of different combinations of substrates and products. SO4(2-) inhibits
by simple competitive inhibition and probably binds at the site of the
transferrable phosphoryl group. Inhibition by NO3-, NO2-, SCN- and Cl- is more
complex and these ions are suggested to mimic the transferrable phosphoryl group 
in a planar transition-state complex. These anions stabilize the dead-end
complex, enzyme-creatine-MgADP, which lacks the transferable phosphoryl group.
The effects of these anions on the dissociation constants of the enzyme-substrate
complexes is reported and is in accord with the above hypothesis. The dead-end
complex in the absence of anion does not protect the essential thiol group
against inhibition by iodoacetamide. Addition of NO3- or Cl- to the dead-end
complex or a substrate equilibrium mixture without anion confers protection. The 
essential thiol group is inhibited by iodoacetamide at a rate which is
essentially independent of pH over the normal stability range of the enzyme.
Contrary to our previous report this pH independence is not altered by the
presence of dead-end complex, creatine plus MgADP, in the presence or absence of 
anion or in the presence of a substrate equilibrium mixture. It is inferred that 
the 'essential' thiol group of the monkey enzyme has essentially the same
properties as that of the rabbit enzyme. In consequence, the inferences made
about the role of this group based on our previous work on the monkey enzyme are 
no longer valid. The present findings are compatible with the essential thiol
group playing a conformational role in the catalytic process.


PMID: 77  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

